There was the wrapping of the gavel and they're called ordered by Senator Montpase.
Again, a small conference just behind the committee table.
We have learned now from the Associated Press that Senator Jackson, the Republican Abel and
the Ranking Republican on the member, has told reporters that the next group that is for the time being.
They may be into the letter, nice sessions and positive sessions.
However, the committee and executive session, according to the report by Senator Jackson,
is both which then the abstinence session is five o'clock.
Again, Senator Carmon, the temporary chairman, wraps the gavel,
turning for another few words.
But now, back in the chairman's speech, Henry will get it the way.
May the bill please come to order.
Chair would like to begin by saying that we're happy to have those interested in these hearings.
From end of this committee room, as I guess, and so far as our facilities provide,
we again call your attention to the rule of the committee, which is that there are
to be no manifestations of approval or disapproval of any audible type at any time or in any way.
And we have officers and staying close with them, the audience, for the purpose of enforcing that rule,
for instructions to provide a escort from the room, the purpose,
and anybody who violates the conditions under which you enter the room.
The audience says that then fine and easy hearings, the officers are going to a wonderful job,
which simply want to continue that procedure.
I would like to say that at the executive committee meeting this morning,
various ideas were considered as to how we could move forward with these hearings more rapidly
from the standpoint of providing more hearing time.
We decided to start it tomorrow morning.
We will begin the hearing each day at Punicom instead of 1030,
continuing them until approximately 1230, a little beyond, a little less.
It appears in the judgment of the committee to be wise at the time,
and we will shorten the new and meet up until we stop the afternoon hearing that two o'clock
and run them until five o'clock, perhaps a little later,
perhaps not quite as late, but in the general area, five o'clock,
as is in the opinion of the committee.
Why?
There were no other decisions or decriminations made I think of in news where the nature says one,
it was agreed by the committee at the suggestion that the president of the president,
that we would authorize him as chairman of the regular committee
to transfer jurisdiction of the Alastin situation to some other Senate committees
if one is available that seems to have jurisdiction.
And that we would authorize in that transfer the use of whatever committee staff members have been working on these Alastin situations.
Mr. Denkins, you and the Justice Department, this time I desire to make an announcement or statement
that the purpose of fair staying up in misunderstanding which apparently arose yesterday
between the principal parties to this controversy.
As Mr. Chair well knows, I have been instructed by resolution adopted in the executive session of this committee
to from time to time, pursue the question of whether or not there was any formula
to be able to all parties by which this thing might be shortened.
The terms of that resolution and yesterday at the conclusion of the morning session,
I talked to Mr. Welsh representing Mr. Steven's and Mr. Adams,
and particularly with reference to the motion or resolution introduced the son of the Drs.
At that time Mr. Welsh did not agree to that formula.
He has never agreed to that formula with me, and as far as I know with anyone else.
He stated according to the best of my recollections with, that is the word rebuttal.
We're deleted from that motion or resolution. He would give its consideration.
That fact I conveyed to the chairman of this committee.
I did not talk to Mr. Welsh any further during the noon hour,
nor had I talked to him at the time he was interrogated by the chairman.
However, during the noon hour I was advised by parties who may have regarded
as being in positions of no, that the formula set forth in the resolution of Senator Dutton
while agreeable to Mr. Steven, the secretary.
I conveyed that information to Senator McCarthy.
It was upon that information which I conveyed to Senator McCarthy.
And telling Senator McCarthy that there have been no agreements reached with Mr. Welsh
but that I had understood from sources I regarded as reliable that the formula
would be agreeable to Mr. Steven.
It was upon that information I am sure that Senator McCarthy took the position
that he had been led to believe that the formula in that resolution
had been accepted by the Army so-called and that based upon that assumption
he and Public King accepted it likewise is very fair safe and dangerous.
That was correct, then. Just today I had one short item to that.
Yesterday I think Mr. Welsh misunderstood,
and I was referring to the conversation I had about his conversation to mean
that I had talked to him.
I have had my staff check the record and they tell me that at no time
that I ever claim, I don't not claim that I ever talked to Mr. Welsh directly
and I do not intend to talk to him directly but any sudden.
That is absolutely clear.
Mr. Welsh, I think that covers the point, and I think we should proceed now
with the business ahead. What are you saying?
What are you saying? Well, that's too well for them enough.
I have in his opinion stated the fact that Sally and Sally accurately
I would like to make sure he lies, Mr. Chairman.
The first remark in respect to the duration of the morning and afternoon
the session, in Boston with somewhat shorter sessions,
we in about halfway through the session take a five minute recess.
So you did have a tiny little break,
and I think it would be great if you would say that would be done.
Now as to yesterday's matter,
today is done. We all know where we came out on it.
We're all going to be in this room some little time.
And I think a certain amount of graciousness from every end
or side of the table is in order.
I think it must be quite clear that if somebody understood this
receiving through the green through wetless entice,
there must have been some of it.
So I say let's put on a kind of a grin of some sort
of a small pile of each other a little if we can and go on with the next witness.
Well, the chair has come to like to say that.
Now in the episode we're going to be calling the executive session.
Insofar as the chair has authority to do so,
we hope to try to expedite these hearings by providing the official
be no more opening statements by members of the Senate at the beginning of the session.
If we have other foreigners for expediting to consider,
the chair will be happy to call the executive committee meeting for that purpose.
We will not again discuss them in public if the chair has any authority to present.
The chair is also suggesting to all people in the room that the questions that they ask
be as concise as possible.
And to all witnesses that the answers be direct.
And if they find in their hearts rewrites from the power that they ask
and know or I can't recall or I don't remember
and not make long speeches in answers to questions.
The chair would like to say also that if he is empowered by his colleagues to enforce it
from now on, when point to word is a maid,
he's going to request those who make them the states to point of order first before talking about.
The chair recognizes he does not have the authority of a judge in a question,
he cannot fight this intent,
because the best of his ability and authority supported by his colleagues
he would probably enforce that rule.
And finally, the toes of us who enjoy 10 minutes of questioning should limit our toes to questions
and not for statements during the 10 minutes.
Mr. Counsel, you may call the next witness.
Chairman, that desire now to call the next witness Mr. Dunley-Headham.
The time is for a testimony about to give it a truth to the hostess
and nothing but the truth about the judge.
In every state, what's the day now?
A thousand, an unlimited time now shall determine the witness in direct examination
and in cross-addomination without any other action.
The atoms will you bring in states your full name to this committee.
My name is John G. Adams.
What official position do you hold with the Army?
I am the counselor of the Department of the Army.
When did you become such?
I was appointed on 1 October, 1953.
Prior to that time, Mr. Adams, had you held any positions with the government?
I had, sir.
Will you please state in short what they were?
From February.
From January, Canada, when the trouble back back was going through
the President's office.
From January, 1947 until February 1, 1949, I was chief clerk of the Committee on Armed Services of the United States Senate.
From February 1, 1949 until about June 1, 1949, I was an attorney adviser to the Secretary of the Senate.
From June 1, 1949, who was about January 1, 1962, I was an assistant general counsel in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
From that date in 1952 until October, 1953, I was deputy general counsel in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
I think it's a sure appointment was made by Mr. Steven, the Secretary of the Army.
That's correct.
And you were sworn in inducted into office on October 1st?
At that time, Mr. Adams, were you personally acquainted with Senator McCarthy, Mr. Kohn or Mr. Carr?
During the week preceding my appointment, I had been monitoring the job for four or five days.
I met Mr. Kohn and Mr. Carr during that week.
I had met Senator McCarthy on two or three previous occasions.
I met him once in 1946.
I met him once or twice while I was an employee of the Senate between 1947 and 1949.
And I called on him in my official capacity in the Office of the Secretary of Defense sometime in the spring of 1953, either one or two short cases.
Upon your induction in the office, I will ask you to tell this committee what these specifically were signed in the U-Badris.
The Secretary of the Army.
The position of the Office of the President's Counselor is set up in a general order of the Department of the Army, which was promulgated a couple of years ago.
And it specifies a number of duties for the Department of the Counselor, including among them, are preparation and be assisting in the preparation of the Secretary of the Army's presentation to congressional committees.
Both the legislative committees and the appropriations committees, assisting various staff agencies of the Army in the preparation of presentations that are going to be made in various investigations, various little jobs for the Secretary of the Army.
All of those assignments were included, among those given to me by the Secretary of the Army.
Additionally, specifically within two or three days of the time that I was appointed as the Department of the Counselor, the Secretary asked me to make contact with the staff of the Senate's permanent investigation committees for the purpose of taking office with children that we liaison responsibilities that he then had been doing for himself during the month of September, with reference to various investigators matters involving the Army.
The madam's arrest, you will or not the Secretary, just just with you at length or otherwise, his relationship with the Secretary of the Army is expanding with them, and particularly his relationship with them with respect to any investigations they have been initiated of a latest infiltration of subverses in the Army.
As far as I can now recall, on the occasion when Mr. Steven first talked to me about the investigation of subverses, he did not forsake all of the conferences and negotiations that he had had during the previous month.
He did tell him about the beginning of the first month investigation.
I think that our conversation was on the third month soon, and he told me that on the previous afternoon he had been called on by Mr. Cohn and Mr. Car, and that they had discussed with him the fact that the committee was interested in Fort Monmouth and were not and the place Cohn and Car were not satisfied with their ability to get information from Fort Monmouth.
Mr. Steven told me that in Cohn and Car's presence on the previous afternoon he had telephoned the Commanding General at Fort Monmouth and had told the General that he desired that the Army give all of this impossible to be investigating subcommittee.
He had done that in Cohn and Car's presence, and that subsequently, after this Cohn and Mr. Car had departed, he had telephoned the chief signal officer, General Back, and had made him aware of the fact that he had made this direct call and had asked General Floss.
I think that he had given all of this impossible to be investigating subcommittee.
When you became aware, not later than after what served, I would have said that the Maccasi committee was interested in Fort Monmouth. Is that correct, Miss Adams?
Yes, sir.
What instructions specifically and the contents as much as possible did the secretary give you with respect to cooperating with the Maccasi committee in this investigation of Fort Monmouth?
Mr. Steven told him then, and the told me repeatedly over the month.
That he intended to have the only cooperates as much as possible and completely unholy hearted with this and every other committee of the Congress in any investigation involved in this.
He specifically told me that he wanted me to assist this committee in every way possible.
When did you first learn of the facts that very existed in your manly and David Chey?
Did you know that fact that you were in induction into office or did you learn it later?
I had read about Mr. Chey and the Maccasi.
Did you know that he was a highly controversial figure?
I had read some newspaper stories, not all of which were French.
You knew that he was not then an in-depthie in the Army.
I knew nothing about it, personal facts.
When did the Saddam, did you first learn that Senator Maccasi or any member of his staff was interested in securing any unusual or preferential treatment for the David Chey?
I'm going to let you learn it.
I'm affecting the host's children.
All right.
I got it.
When the Saddam, did you first learn that Senator Maccasi or any member of his staff was interested in securing any unusual or preferential treatment for the David Chey?
I'm going to let you learn it.
Why are you not relying on the chairs for just to keep the short eyes?
I've opened up interrupt this morning, but I'd like to suggest that.
When Mr. Duncan's asked a question thing, when did you learn such as the fact?
The chairs' implications of the Duncan's think of such as the fact.
I'm not thinking one way or the other. I'm exactly the right question.
When did you learn that there has been any intervention?
On the part of Senator Maccasi or any member of his staff was interested in the David Chey. Any request made to respect the him?
He's dragged off to the third.
I'll talk to the third.
No, I'll just keep it in the rough.
This is only regard to this question, but to the learn of the first.
May I repeat what Mr. Duncan's saying?
When did you learn that there was intervention?
When did you learn that there was just a cycle of failure?
If I were a casual observer, I would think the Duncan had decided such as the fact.
Thanks to the fact that they were in the aquariums, that there was a person in the first.
When did you learn that there was a person in the first.
Because this is the very need of the thing.
I'm really willing to still rephrase it.
Thank you.
Mr. Adam, did or not you on October 13th for the first time?
Did or not you at that time receive information from a reliable source, including the secretary of the Army,
that any request that the maids of Neil Martin of his first and I always respect his e-day of the chat?
Is that true or not?
There are a couple of minutes to challenge.
I don't think I can answer that question, yes or no.
Because it is impossible words in my mouth and I think there is an answer to the question of the answer.
Well, I don't think the fact.
I don't think the fact that question can answer that.
I don't think I can answer that question, yes or no.
May I recompense the incident of October 13th as I remember?
It's certainly so.
On the 13th of October, the secretary of the Army went to New York for the purposes of all the things the executive hearings of the subcommittee which were being held in the United States Court House.
I accompanied him as he had just one of the days.
On the earth I am going to New York or working the automobile from the earth to going to the courthouse.
He was expected to somewhere or another, the name of the shine came up.
I don't think I'm in the house.
The secretary told me on that occasion that shine was going to be drafted.
And that he cautioned me that I should not discuss it with the committee staff to talk it with the sensitive point.
And he said, don't bring it up unless they bring it up.
And don't send them on.
Something about effect.
And although I cannot recite the exact words, the conversation was elaborated upon and the indications were that the secretary had been having some difficult conversations with reference to shine.
Is that the first time as far as you can remember?
As far as I can say, I would discuss shine with you on the making of his name.
That is the precise time that I remember.
There may be a name that has been an illusion to us sometime between the 13th and the 13th, but I don't recall.
Did the secretary at that time or did he ever relate to you all of the incidents that had come to his attention with reference to shine and particularly beginning on July 8th, 1953?
July 8th, yes.
Did the secretary ever or not tell you anything with reference to General Reapers' experiences with the McCarthy Committee with reference to shine on her about July 8th?
I don't think Mr. C. C. C.
Will you, Mr. Adams, tell all...like that question?
When was your first contact with Senator McCarthy or any member of this staff with reference to G. David Jack?
When we went to the hearings on the 13th of October, Shine was present at most of the interrogations.
I'm not sure that he was there each morning and afternoon, but he was present most of the time.
We went to lunch as the secretary's yes at the merchant's club on most of the 13th on the 14th.
And on either one of the most of those occasions, I think Shine was present.
He was part of a group of eight attendants who were together.
Did or not Senator McCarthy or any member of his staff see you either off to research things or 14th with reference to shine?
I can't recall whether there was any conversation with me on the 13th or the 14th.
I was in New York four days, 13, 14, 15, and 15.
There were conversations during the week.
I'm not sure if it was 13 or 14.
I think it was 15.
With whom did you have such conversations with that, and I had such conversations with Senator McCarthy?
Will you now relate to the committee what that conversation was with Senator McCarthy?
And particularly with reference to the David Shine?
Yes, during one or two of the days, when the hearings had respect and the group of the participants including Army officials, less courthouse, there was the newspaper photographer for Christmas.
I had not been aware of this, but I became aware because of the remarks of some of the people I don't now remember who.
The Shine was getting in many of the photographs.
And I stood back on one of the occasions on June on the 13th, 14th, 15th, and watched what these people said was the technique by which Shine managed to get himself between the two principles so that he'd be photographed.
And how would you...
Well, I think on one occasion it was Senator McCarthy and Secretary Steven from the news of the 14th coming down the stairs.
On another occasion for Senator McCarthy and General Back, one of the generals.
And it was a source of some amusing, to various members of the staff.
On one of the evenings when I was riding up town, I recall I was riding up town and I believe it was in New York Subway.
I'm not exactly sure.
Senator McCarthy expressed to me his irritation about Friday's Shine.
Just precisely what did he say according to your best recollection of that?
Well, he made it. He made it. He remarked to be a fact that the Shine was not much used to the Committee and was only interested in being photographed.
And that he hopes that nothing would happen to interfere with the processes of the draft and that Shine would be drafted.
And then he asked me specifically not to tell Mr. Cohn, his attitude with reference to Shine.
I didn't ask him if I had his permission.
Did he tell you why he did not want you to tell Mr. Cohn?
No.
Was there one President from that conversation to place between you and Senator?
I think Mrs. McCarthy was.
Very well. Go ahead. You asked permission to tell Mr. Cohn when I returned to Washington about Senator McCarthy's attitude since I'm Shine and he agreed that I could.
When I returned to Washington, I didn't tell Mr. Cohn.
Now have you related all of the details of that conversation as far as you can remember the reference to Shine, Mr. Adams?
Well, the conversation took...
We were in the subway. I imagined 15 minutes.
I think we were in the subway. We might have been in the cap. My recollection is that it was a subway.
The conversation took five minutes or so. I have read and recited the book, took one minute.
I may not remember sentencing. That was the gist of the conversation.
Very well. Now, when did I?
I mean, I didn't mean to cut you all before you threw me that. When was your next comment actually with either Senator McCarthy?
Are you any member of this tab with particular reference to Shine?
I cannot give you an exact date.
Some sequence, too, the time that we took the first month.
Mr. Cohn sent him a car today with Cohn and I and others once for a month.
I had various conversations with Mr. Cohn.
Now, Mr. Adams, you're skipping over now from the 13th, 14th, or 15th to a date subsequent to October 20th. Are you not?
That is right.
Was there any contacts between you either initiated by you or Senator McCarthy or his staff between the 13th, 14th and 15th of October and the 20th of October?
As far as you can remember.
I was in New York on 13, 14, 15, and 16 of October, which was 16 with a Friday.
Have you turned to Washington within my office on Saturday, the 7th, Sunday, the 18th?
We had conversation on the 19th with reference to the 5th to 4th month with just place on the 20th.
Any conversations on the 19th with reference to Shine?
I recall.
Mr. Adams, I think we'll get along better if you were very nice.
That in your direct examination, I am questioning you with respect.